 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Advancing Regulatory Science and Innovation 
This Broad Agency Announcement (BAA), which sets forth research areas of interest for Food and Drug 
Administration, is issued under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) part 35.016(c). The purpose of this 
BAA is to provide a mechanism by which FDA can utilize industry and academia’s capabilities to advance 
the state of the art and achieve improvements in technology, materials, processes, methods, devices, or 
techniques in specific topics as described in this document. Proposals selected for award are the result of full 
and open competition and in full compliance with the provision of Public Law 98-369, "The Competition  in 
Contracting Act of 1984" and subsequent amendments. 
The FDA protects and promotes the health and safety of all Americans through enhancing the availability of 
safe medical products and foods and promoting innovation that addresses unmet medical and public health 
needs. FDA also protects and promotes the health and safety of animals through assuring the availability of 
safe animal drug products and food. Since 2009, FDA has worked to reduce the harm from all regulated 
tobacco products. FDA is a science- based regulatory agency and a critical component to the success of the 
nation’s public health, health care systems, and economy. FDA was created in 1906 as one of our nation’s 
principal consumer product protection agencies and is now responsible for assuring the safety of all FDA 
regulated products. 
In the US, FDA-regulated products account for about 20 cents of every dollar spent by American consumers 
each year on products that touch the lives of every American daily. FDA is responsible for advancing the 
public health by helping to speed innovations that make foods safer and make medicines, biologics, and 
devices safer and more effective. At the same time, FDA helps consumers and health care providers get the 
accurate and science-based information they need to make the best possible decisions about their use of 
medical products and foods. FDA is working to protect Americans from tobacco-related death and disease. 
FDA must make decisions based on the best available scientific data and using the best tools and methods 
available to ensure products meet the highest quality standards for consumers, while at the same time 
fostering and advancing innovation in the products it regulates. 
The core responsibility of FDA is to protect consumers by applying the best possible science to 
its regulatory activities, ranging from pre-market review of efficacy and safety of many of its regulated 
products to post-market product surveillance, review of product quality, regulation of product manufacture, 
and distribution and marketing of tobacco products. In the last few years, rapid advances in innovative 
science have provided new technologies to discover, manufacture, and assess novel medical products. In 
order to improve food safety and quality, FDA must keep pace with and utilize these new scientific advances 
to accomplish its mission to protect and promote the health of our nation. 
The BAA is open to all responsible sources. Offerors may include single entities or teams from private sector 
organizations, Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs), and academic institutions. 
Non-U.S. organizations and/or individuals may participate to the extent that such participants comply with 
any necessary nondisclosure agreements, security regulations, export control laws, and other governing 
statutes applicable under the circumstances. 
Federally Funded Research and Development Centers (FFRDCs) and Government entities (e.g., 
Government/National laboratories, military educational institutions) are subject to applicable direct 
competition limitations and cannot propose to this BAA in any capacity unless they meet the following 
conditions: 
1.  Clearly demonstrate that the proposed work is not otherwise available from the private sector. 
4 
  
2.  Provide a letter on official letterhead from their sponsoring organization citing the specific authority 
establishing their eligibility to propose to Government solicitations and compete with industry, and 
their compliance with the associated sponsoring agreement and terms and conditions. 
Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU), Minority Institutions (MI), Small Business concerns, 
Small Disadvantaged Business concerns, Women-Owned Small Business concerns, Veteran-Owned Small 
Business concerns, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business concerns, and HUB Zone Small 
Business concerns are encouraged to submit proposals and to join other entities as team members in 
submitting proposals. 
The purpose of this BAA is to solicit proposals that focus on one or more of the following areas of interest as 
listed below and further described in Part I of this announcement. 
Research Areas of Interest: 
I.  Modernize development and evaluation of FDA-regulated products  
A.  Alternative Methods 
B.  Advanced Manufacturing Approaches   
C.  Analytical and Computational Methods 
D.  Biomarkers 
E.  Clinical Outcome Assessment 
F.  Complex and Novel Clinical Trial Design 
G.  Predictive Toxicology 
H.  Methods for Assessing Behavioral, Economic, or Human Factors  
I.  Approaches to Incorporate Patient and Consumer Input 
J.  Methods to Assess Real-World Data to serve as Real-World Evidence 
K.  Methods to Assess Data Source Interoperability 
 
II.  Strengthen post-market surveillance and labeling of FDA-regulated products  
A.  Methods to Assess Real-World Data to Support Regulatory Decision-Making 
B.  Using and Validating Artificial Intelligence Approaches 
C.  Novel Clinical Trial Design, Statistical and Epidemiologic Methods   
D.  Automated Reporting Tools for Adverse Events and Active Surveillance 
E.  Methods to Improve Communication About Risk to Patients and Consumers  
F.  Approach to Expand Data Capacity, and Increase Data Quality and Use     
G.  Efforts to Harmonize Existing and Emerging Data Standards 
 
III.  Invigorate public health preparedness and response of the FDA, patients, and consumers 
A.  Reinforce Medical countermeasures Initiative (MCMi) 
B.  Antimicrobial Resistance 
C.  Patient and Consumer Engagement 
D.  Substance Use and Misuse 
E.  One Health Approaches 
F.  Global Product Safety net 
Multiple awards are anticipated. The amount of resources made available for individual contract awards 
under this BAA will depend on the quality of the proposals received and the availability of funds. All funding 
is subject to government discretion and availability.  
The Government reserves the right to select for negotiation all, some, one, or none of the proposals received 
5 
  
in response to this solicitation, and to make awards without discussions with proposers. The Government 
also reserves the right to conduct discussions if it is later determined to be necessary. If warranted, portions 
of resulting awards may be segregated into pre-priced/severable options. Additionally, FDA reserves the 
right to accept proposals in their entirety or to select only portions of proposals for award. In the event FDA 
desires to award only portions of a proposal, negotiations may be opened with that proposer. The 
Government reserves the right to fund proposals in phases with options for continued work at the end of one 
or more of the phases.  
To be eligible for award, a prospective recipient must meet certain minimum standards pertaining to financial 
resources, ability to comply with the performance schedule, prior record of performance, integrity, 
organization, experience, operational controls, technical controls, technical skills, facilities, and equipment.  
This BAA is available on www.beta.sam.gov using Keyword Search “FDABAA-23-00123.” 
This BAA is a continuously open announcement valid throughout the period from the date of issuance 
through the closing date specified in the www.beta.sam.gov announcement. Amendments to this BAA, if 
necessary, will be posted in the same site when they occur. Interested parties are encouraged to periodically 
check the website for updates and amendments. 
Please note, beginning this fiscal year, the FDA will be giving preference to proposals that use a cost 
reimbursement model vice a firm fixed price model. Research, by definition, does not always produce a 
deliverable, whether due to the nature of the research or the results of the research. By proposing a 
severable, cost reimbursable contract, risk is reduced to both the government and the awardee. In the future, 
the FDA may move to only utilizing a cost type model for this BAA award.  
Requirements for cost contracts can be found in the list of clauses in attachment 5. Please note, the contract 
requirements differ between commercial and educational entities. It is HIGHLY recommended that all 
potential proposal submitters review Part 31 - Contract Cost Principles and Procedures: 
 31.103 Contracts with commercial organizations. 
      3 1.104 Contracts with educational institutions. 
Part I: Research Areas of Interest 
Through this BAA, FDA seeks to support advanced research and development strategies with potential for 
regulatory application in the following research areas of interest. This section presents the technical 
objectives that FDA seeks to achieve through this BAA. Because resources are limited, preference will be 
given to projects geared toward advancing regulatory science, the science of developing new tools, 
standards, and approaches to assess the safety, efficacy, quality, and performance of FDA-regulated 
products, which include medical devices, drugs, biologics, combination products, veterinary medicine, food, 
cosmetics, dietary supplements and tobacco products. 
In addition to the product areas that FDA regulates, FDA aims to target innovation in regulatory science that 
advances the health of the following demographic groups and populations, some of which have clinical 
characteristics that may frequently preclude their participation in clinical research or bear disproportionate 
burden of tobacco product risk and harm: racial & ethnic minorities, women’s health, persons with cancer 
and persons with rare diseases (including rare cancers). 
Offerors should propose a Statement of Work (SOW) that is consistent with research and development work 
as defined in FAR 35.001. Proposal preparation and submission instructions are contained in Part III. 
6 
  
Through collaborative interactions with stakeholders, we aim to foster robust and innovative approaches to 
advance regulatory science through the following framework.   
Additional information regarding specific FDA initiatives, and/or center and office priorities can be found in 
the appendix. 
 
REGULATORY SCIENCE FRAMEWORK – OVERVIEW 
The goal of this framework is to harness regulatory science research to accomplish the following three 
charges that directly align with FDA’s mission, to: 
I.  Modernize development and evaluation of FDA-regulated products  
II. Strengthen post-market surveillance and labeling of FDA-regulated products  
III. Invigorate public health preparedness and response of the FDA, patients, and consumers  
These three charges are foundational to FDA’s mission, and thus are not expected to change.  We have 
designated areas to target regulatory science efforts that support the FDA’s mission for each charge.  The 
areas of regulatory science are designed to change with the evolution of science, technologies, and public 
health needs.  Moreover, each area has been designated under a specific charge, and where possible, 
specific product areas and/or demographics and populations have been labeled.  When multiple product 
areas and/or demographics and populations have been identified for a given regulatory science area, we use 
the term cross-cutting in place of the specific product area and/or demographic or population. Lastly, 
please see Table 1, which highlights the topic areas that are priorities for FDA for FY 23. 
7 
  
FDA-Regulated  Demographics 
Areas & Populations
y
rit
o
n
Anticipated FY23 Funding for  ne Mi
BAA Projects edici ducts hnic  alth s
Biologics Devices Drugs Veterinary M Tobacco Pro Racial and Et Women's He Rare Disease Oncology
I.  Modernize development and evaluation of FDA-regulated products
A. Alternative Methods X X X X X X X X
B.Advanced Manufacturing Approaches  (includes MCMi) X X X X
C. Analytical and Computational Methods X X X X X X X X
D. Biomarkers X X X X X X
E. Clinical Outcome Assessment X X X X
F. Complex and Novel Clinical Trial Design X X X X X X X
G. Predictive Toxicology X X X X
H. Methods for Assessing Behavioral, Economic, or Human Factors  X
I. Approaches to Incorporate Patient and Consumer Input X X X
J. Methods to Assess Real-World Data to serve as Real-World Evidence X X X X X X
K. Methods to Assess Data Source Interoperability X
II.  Strengthen post-market surveillance and labeling of regulated products
A. Methods to Assess Real-World Data to Support Regulatory Decision-Making X X X X X
B. Using and Validating Artificial Intelligence Approaches X X X X X
C. Novel Clinical Trial Design, Statistical and Epidemiologic Methods   X X X
D. Automated Reporting Tools for Adverse Events and Active Surveillance X X X X X
E. Methods to Improve Communication About Risk to Patients and Consumers  X X X
F. Approach to Expand Data Capacity, and Increase Data Quality and Use     X X
G. Efforts to Harmonize Existing and Emerging Data Standards  X X X
III.  Invigorate public health preparedness and response of the FDA, patients, and consumers
A. Reinforce Medical Countermeasures Initiative (MCMi) X X X X X X
B. Antimicrobial Resistance X
C. Patient and Consumer Engagement X X X X
D. Substance Use and Misuse X X X
E. One Health Approaches X X X X X X X X X
F. Global Product Safety net X X X  
Table 1:  Areas of regulatory science for each charge (rows), and relevant applicable to product 
areas, and demographics & populations (columns).  The “x” marks priority areas for FDA in FY 23. 
I. Modernize development and evaluation of FDA-regulated products  
 
The following focus areas of regulatory science are identified to accomplish Charge I, modernize development 
and evaluation of FDA-regulated products:  
 
A.  Alternative Methods  
Examples: Novel in-vitro, in-vivo, and in-silico methods; Microphysiological System; Organ-on-a-chip; 
Use of alternative assays 
 
1.  Cross-cutting  
a.  Integrate an understanding of product quality and safety based on novel genomic, 
proteomic, metabolomic, and other-omic technologies.   
8 
  
b.  Develop and use microphysiological systems and computational modeling approaches to 
improve predictivity of nonclinical testing and potentially address the 3Rs (replace, reduce, and 
refine) of animal use in product testing and scientific research.  
2.  Devices  
a.  Develop new methods for biocompatibility testing approaches to research and 
characterize biological response to extracts of medical devices (e.g., in vitro alternatives) and 
particulates in line with 21st Century Cures Least Burdensome measures and the reduction in 
the use of animals. 
b.  Evaluate the application and validation of modeling and simulation data as digital evidence 
throughout the total product life cycle to augment and/or replace physical product testing. 
c. Develop and validate methods to create digital twins (i.e., highly complex models using artificial 
intelligence and large amounts of digital and physical data to create simulations of new 
treatments and personalized innovative devices). 
3.  Tobacco: 
a.  Evaluate and promote the use of cell- and tissue-based assays that more accurately 
represent human susceptibility than animal models to adverse reactions (e.g., differentiated 
primary lung cells grown at an air liquid interface or lung-on-a-chip and microphysiological 
systems model); 
i.  Predict threshold of toxicological concerns resulting from exposure to Electronic 
Nicotine Delivery Systems (ENDS) aerosols and other new and emerging tobacco 
products or their constituents. 
ii.  Predict levels of tobacco-related toxicants resulting from exposure to ENDS aerosols 
and other new and emerging tobacco products or their constituents that induce in vitro 
responses to in vivo exposure levels that could result in human or animal adverse 
effects. 
4.  Women’s Health: 
a.  Develop alternative methods in support of development of diagnostics and therapeutics 
targeting women, including, but not limited to:  
i.  methods to evaluate innovative, new devices and diagnostics specifically designed for use 
in women. 
ii.   methods to enhance the evaluation of devices used in both men and women to take into 
consideration sex differences like organ size/anatomy/ physiology/human factors 
differences that may affect device performance.  
iii.  Foster development methods to evaluate sex-matched devices and companion 
diagnostics. 
b.   Methods to evaluate FDA regulated-product safety and effectiveness during pregnancy and 
lactation. 
5.  Rare diseases:  
a.  Develop new alternate methods (microphysiological systems and Complex in vitro 
Methods) to support regulatory submissions demonstrating efficacy and safety assessment of 
drugs for rare diseases. 
B.  Advanced Manufacturing Approaches   
Examples: New medical product manufacturing technologies and processes that can improve quality of 
FDA regulated products, address shortages of medicines, and/or speed time-to-market; Technologies 
may include Continuous, Additive and Smart manufacturing 
  
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a.  Facilitate development and evaluation of: 
i.  automated or semi-automated in-process monitoring and control systems and 
methods. 
9 
  
ii.  test and validation metrics for advanced manufacturing processes including additive 
manufacturing, integration and intensification of process unit operations, adaptive 
processes, and automation of operations. 
iii.  new ways to evaluate gene and cell therapy products and their manufacturing 
methods develop in this period of face-paced scientific progress. 
iv.  how implementation of digital technologies in product design, development, and life 
cycle risk management impacts the control, responsiveness, and product quality. 
b.  Investigate the effect of advanced manufacturing on product quality. Examine specific novel 
material and manufacturing technologies to determine how they impact product failure rates; 
i.  Research focuses on technologies and materials that result in manufacturing technology, 
tools, or approaches that enhance control of critical quality attributes for drug substances 
or products. 
ii.  Improve manufacturing capabilities for devices, complex drugs, and biologics. 
c.  Investigate the effects in supply chain of implementing advanced manufacturing for specific 
types of medical products, especially such as biologics, vaccines and medical devices. 
Topics may include: 
i.  Supply chain resilience to disruption 
ii.  Increased access, 
iii.  Personalization, 
iv.  Decreased reliance on foreign supply chains. 
d.  Develop improved methods and tools to detect and measure the physical structure, chemical 
properties, and biological behavior of engineered nanomaterials, additively manufactured 
pharmaceuticals (pharmacoprinted products), biological products (e.g., therapeutic proteins 
or monoclonal antibodies) and complex dosage forms (e.g., transdermal patches, inhalation 
delivery systems, and targeted drug delivery systems) in FDA-regulated products. 
e.  Investigate or develop methods to increase implementation and adoption advanced 
manufacturing methods in critical areas that impact production of vaccines, diagnostics, 
critical medicines and devices, and potential shortage products. 
2.  Drugs:  
a.  Develop improved methods and tools for the validation and lifecycle maintenance of digital 
technologies for Industry 4.0 for pharmaceutical manufacturing including data capture and 
storage, adaptive process control, digital twins, and internet of things. 
b.  Develop improved methods for the manufacturing of sterile drug products including rapid 
monitoring for the detection of microbial contamination. 
3.  Biologics:  
a.  Explore novel applications of advanced (e.g., integrated and continuous) manufacturing 
processes for complex biologic products, such as vaccines, tissue-engineered products, and 
cell and gene therapies.  Describe the potential impact of the proposed enabling technology 
on process control strategy and its readiness for broad implementation in the 
biopharmaceutical industry. Quantify the improvement metric for implementation of advanced 
manufacturing processes at a commercial scale as compared to traditional batch production 
or small-scale pilot production, if relevant. Topics may include but are not limited to:  
i.  Closed and automated manufacturing processes,  
ii.  Modular manufacturing platforms with integrated in-process testing capabilities,  
iii.  Manufacturing process modeling and simulation,  
iv.  Advanced or novel process analytical technologies for real time process control 
and release, 
v.  Improved cell lines and improved upstream cell culture production processes for 
vaccine antigen or viral vector manufacturing. 
b.  Develop new approaches such as in vitro and in vivo methods to identify measurable 
characteristics of product safety, quality, and potency when evaluating new biotherapeutics 
10 
  
(e.g., engineered tissues or cell therapy products, including stem cell- derived products), for 
clinical application in regenerative medicine; 
i.  Identification of critical quality attributes (CQAs) and development of advanced assays for 
characterization of CQAs in products for gene and cell therapies, 
ii.  Development of reference materials and standards for gene and cell therapies. 
4.  Devices:  
a.  Develop novel materials intended for use as materials of construction or manufacturing aids 
for medical devices; 
i.  Advance the development of novel materials for manufacturing of respirators and 
other personal protective equipment including the development of integrated 
virocidal or other infection control blocking capabilities. 
b.  Develop standardized methods for devices to dynamically update their data dictionary and 
related embedded software to respond to new data needs, such as those driven by public 
health response to emerging threats 
5.  Medical Countermeasure Initiative (MCMi): 
a.  Refine or enhance existing technologies to improve the sensitivity, specificity, and 
robustness of testing methods used to measure medical countermeasure (MCM) potency, in-
process characteristics, and final drug substance characteristics (for example, in-line sensors 
process analytical technologies). 
b.   Advance broadly applicable, commercially ready (pilot ready or commercially 
implementable: MRL 4-6 and 7-9 respectively) tools, technologies, and platforms that 
improve manufacturing efficiency, consistency, quality, and speed of medical 
countermeasures (MCMs) to bolster the MCM supply chain; for example, “plug-and-play” 
modular unit operations applicable for downstream processing, or continuous manufacturing.  
6.  Neo-antigen-based therapies, Oncology 
a.  Create novel technologies and approaches to evaluate both efficacy and safety for 
neoantigen-based therapies that incorporate unique features of individual cancers, 
neoantigen and immune responses. Examples may include neoantigen-based vaccines, 
redirecting T-cell specificity by genetically modifying T cells with receptors specific against 
neoantigen-derived epitopes. 
7.  Pediatric Oncology:  
a.  Development of immune based therapies (engineered immune effector cells or bifunctional 
activators) that recognize tumor specific altered glycan epitopes (glycolipids or glycoproteins) 
that NK and T-cells do not generally recognize. 
 
C.  Analytical and Computational Methods   
Examples: Develop and use of computational methods and in-silico modeling; Simulation-based 
approaches; Advanced quantitative methods-based modeling; Predictive modeling, Model-
informed drug development  
 
1.  Cross-cutting: 
a.  Develop and evaluate the use of model-based digitally integrated systems, artificial 
intelligence, machine learning and simulation in production or quality system activities. 
Proposals may include but are not limited to: 
ii.  Generative Design 
iii.  Production simulation and simulated process validation,  
iv.  AI/ML application to quality system activities, such as, complaint management, trending, 
or others,  
v.  Intelligent Design Control 
vi.  Closed loop risk-management. 
b.  Develop computer models of cells, organs, and systems (including the impact of hormones) 
to predict product risk, safety and efficacy of 
i.  FDA regulated products  
11 
  
ii.  ingredients in dietary supplements, including potential interactions with drugs and other 
dietary supplements. 
c.  Develop computer models that integrate pharmacokinetic, pharmacodynamic, materials 
science, or mechanistic safety data to predict clinical risk and corroborate post-market 
findings in different patient populations. 
d.   Develop and apply data mining, knowledge building, and data visualization tools to inform 
computer model development, clinical risk prediction, and regulatory decision-making; 
e.  Develop novel methods to display model output in both graphical and numeric formats; 
f.  Explore the role of digital health technologies in the evaluation of new medical products; 
g.  Identify opportunities and develop computer simulation and modeling to streamline data 
analysis and model biological systems and their responses to agents of concern, such as 
toxins, toxic compounds, pathogens, and biomaterials. 
h.  Develop clinical trial simulation models that can reveal interactions between drug or device 
effects, patient characteristics, and disease variables influencing outcomes. 
2.  Biologics:  
a.  Develop computational tools and models to predict immunogenicity for biologic products 
including modified sequences for mitigation of immunogenicity risk. 
3.  Devices:  
a.  Develop computational modeling and simulation methods to promote the use of in-silico 
assessment of devices and materials. 
b.  Evaluate the use of computational modeling and simulation to improve or optimize device 
sterilization processes. Explore validation requirements and methods to enable the use of the 
modeling and simulation data as a valid source of digital evidence. 
4.  Drugs:  
a.  Improve the efficiency of Biosimilar product development 
i.  Evaluate advancements in analytical (including physical, chemical and biological 
function assays), and pharmacological assessments and experience with prior biosimilar 
product development to identify opportunities to streamline biosimilar product 
development. 
ii.  Investigate and evaluate informative, scientifically appropriate methodologies to predict 
immunogenicity by advancing the knowledge of analytical (including physical, chemical, 
and biological function assays), pharmacological and clinical correlations as it relates to 
biosimilarity. 
b.  Develop Methods for Generics to Address Harmful Impurities such as Nitrosamines:  
This research area focuses on understanding how ingredients in generic drug products may 
either contribute to or mitigate the formation of harmful impurities such as nitrosamine 
adducts such as nitrosamine drug substance related impurities (NDSRIs), evaluating the risk 
of human exposure to these impurities, and developing methods for abbreviated new drug 
application (ANDA) applicants to efficiently address the potential risks. For more information, 
see the Generic Drug User Fee Amendments (GDUFA) science and research priority 
initiatives for fiscal year (FY) 2023. 
c.  Enhance the Efficiency of BE Approaches for Complex Active Ingredients:  
This research area focuses on improving advanced orthogonal methods for the 
characterization of chemical compositions, molecular structures, and distributions of complex 
active ingredients that can elucidate attributes of complex active ingredients that may be 
critical to their performance and, thereby, support the development of efficient 
characterization-based BE approaches. For more information, see the GDUFA science and 
research priority initiatives for FY 2023. 
d.  Enhance the Efficiency of BE Approaches for Complex Dosage Forms and Formulations:  
This research area focuses on improving efficient characterization-based (in vitro) BE 
approaches for complex dosage forms by identifying relevant critical quality attributes 
(CQAs) to characterize and suitable test methods for doing so. For more information, see the 
12 
  
GDUFA science and research priority initiatives for FY 2023. 
e.  Enhance the Efficiency of BE Approaches for Complex Routes of Delivery:  
This research area focuses on understanding of how ingredients and other aspects of a 
formulation influence drug absorption via complex routes of delivery, building in vivo 
predictive models and identifying corresponding failure modes for BE, to support the 
development of efficient BE approaches for these products. For more information, see the 
GDUFA science and research priority initiatives for FY 2023. 
f.  Enhance the Efficiency of BE Approaches for Complex Drug-Device Combination Products:  
This research area focuses on evaluating the impact of identified differences in the user-
interfaces, hardware, software or propellants between prospective generic and the reference 
standard on the BE, therapeutic equivalence or post-marketing safety of generic drug-device 
combination products. For more information, see the GDUFA science and research priority 
initiatives for FY 2023. 
g.  Improve the Efficiency of BE Approaches for Oral and Parenteral Generic Products:  
This research area focuses on understanding of how ingredients in oral and parenteral drug 
products may modulate bioavailability, and on improving biorelevant dissolution methods as 
well as in silico models to support the expansion of biowaivers and to support global 
harmonization. This includes developing evidence to support the feasibility of biowaivers for 
immediate release (IR) oral drug products with differences in formulations larger than 
currently recommended in FDA guidance, or for IR oral drug products that do not 
demonstrate comparable dissolution profiles across strengths. It also includes establishing 
approaches to manage potential risks related to subject safety more consistently when 
developing clinical BE study recommendations and elucidating potential failure modes for BE 
with special populations (e.g., pediatric or geriatric patients) to improve tools and 
methodologies that can be incorporated into BE study recommendations which ensure the 
equivalence of therapeutic outcomes in diverse populations. For more information, see the 
GDUFA science and research priority initiatives for FY 2023. 
h.  Facilitate the Utility of Model-Integrated Evidence (MIE) to Support Demonstrations of BE:  
This research area focuses on developing tools and advancing approaches to integrate 
complementary in silico (modeling), in vivo and in vitro evidence in ways that collectively 
mitigate the risk of failure modes for BE and support a framework for virtual BE studies. For 
example, while it may not be feasible to adequately characterize the long-term bioavailability 
of drugs from LAI products using in vivo or in vitro methods alone, it may be feasible to 
integrate limited in vivo and in vitro data with PBPK models that generate the remaining 
evidence needed to support a demonstration of BE. This area includes research on the use 
of MIE to evaluate failure modes for BE and to optimize the design of BE studies. For more 
information, see the GDUFA science and research priority initiatives for FY 2023. 
i.  Expand the Use of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) Tools:  
This research area focuses on building systems and infrastructure that support the 
functionality of AI/ML tools which FDA can use to improve the efficiency and consistency of 
scientific assessments and advice. This includes using AI/ML tools such as natural language 
processing (NLP) that automate the assembly of key information routinely assessed during 
the development of recommendations in Product Specific Guidelines (PSGs), or during the 
assessment of ANDAs, as well as AI/ML tools that facilitate planning and resource allocation 
to support GDUFA commitments. For more information, see the GDUFA science and 
research priority initiatives for FY 2023. 
 
5.  Immuno-Oncology:  
a.  Perform analyses of clinical data to develop a better understanding of the proportion of 
patients with atypical response and/or resistance and explore the development of predictive 
analytics related to ICI treatment and resistance; 
6.  Neo-antigen-based therapies, Oncology:  
13 
  
a.  Develop, optimize and standardize algorithms for neoantigen identification. These are 
important to ensure the efficacy and safety of these products in the treatment of patients with 
cancer. 
7.  Precision Oncology:   
a.  Develop novel selection/response biomarkers using algorithms combining different types of 
medical images including radiology images (e.g., CT, PET) and/or histopathology images 
combined with novel analysis approaches such radiomics and machine learning. 
8.  Rare Cancers, Oncology: 
a.  Investigations using text mining and artificial intelligence to analyze, assess and interpret the 
scientific literature and other public databases of genomic and transcriptomic analyses in rare 
cancers to identify drugs that have been used against molecular targets relevant in rare 
cancers. 
9.  Minority health:  
a.  Examine the distinctive health characteristics and attributes of racial and/or ethnic minority 
groups in the development of innovative health products, new materials, and novel 
assessment tools and methodologies, including nanotechnology, precision medicine, 
pharmacogenomics, novel imaging and diagnostic technologies, 3-D printing, stem cells and 
regenerative medicine, and In- silico modeling. 
10. Women’s health:  
a.  Develop methods to evaluate sex differences in the safety and efficacy of FDA regulated 
products. 
b.   Develop novel tools to evaluate regulated-product toxicity or the safety and efficacy 
during pregnancy and lactation. 
11. Rare disease:  
a.  Develop rare-disease clinical trial simulation models that can reveal interactions between drug 
or device effects, patient characteristics, and disease variables influencing outcomes, with 
attention to the challenges of small populations (e.g., pediatrics) and heterogeneity of patients 
with rare conditions. 
12. Tobacco:  
a.  Develop innovative models for effectively extrapolating in vitro exposure levels that cause 
toxicological response to in vivo adverse effects for the assessment of human health risk 
resulting from exposure to ENDS and other new and emerging tobacco products or their 
constituents. 
b.  Understand the potential or actual impact of FDA regulatory actions. Priorities for impact 
analysis include: behavioral economics experiments and modeling (e.g., population modeling, 
agent-based modeling) studies to estimate the range of potential impacts on behavior and 
health of potential FDA regulatory actions such as product standards addressing toxicity, 
appeal, and addiction (e.g., prohibiting flavored cigars other than tobacco flavored, prohibiting 
menthol as a characterizing flavor in cigarettes and cigars, lowering the nicotine content in 
combustible cigarettes); and where appropriate to the research question, studies involving 
populations with disproportionate burden of tobacco product risk and harm are encouraged. 
c.  Develop new modeling approaches to assess the risk of new tobacco products (e.g., non-
tobacco nicotine products) that will potentially enter the market by considering how such 
products may affect users and non-users of the product based on factors including, but not 
limited to exposure to toxicants, product characteristics and demographic attributes of the 
users and usage patterns. 
d.  Develop new modeling approaches to characterize exposures that reflect long-term non-
continuous tobacco product inhalation exposures from use of new/novel tobacco products as 
well as dual use with conventional cigarettes. Inhaled tobacco product exposure assessment 
would ideally consider the following modeling parameters: 
14 
  
i.  Concentration of chemicals in the smoke or aerosol, or in the tobacco product itself (e.g., 
e-liquid, tobacco filler), 
ii.  Puff topography (e.g., sessions per day, puffs per session, puff volume, inter-puff interval), 
iii.  Tobacco product intake rate (e.g., volume of e-liquid used per day, cigarettes smoked per 
day), 
iv.  Exposure frequency (e.g., daily, one day per week, five days per month), 
v.  Exposure duration – How long a person has been using the tobacco product of interest (in 
years), 
vi.  Averaging time – Lifespan for a given population, 
vii.  Transitions between different tobacco products used in a lifetime, 
viii.  Potential use of single or multiple tobacco products in the same timeframe (e.g., exclusive, 
dual, or poly-use), 
ix.  Transitions between tobacco use and no tobacco use in a lifetime, 
x.  Potentially different effects of tobacco use earlier in life versus later in life. 
D.  Biomarkers  
Examples (includes imaging): Biomarker identification; Biomarker qualification; Biomarker evaluation, 
Biomarker validation  
 
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a.  Advance methodologies for qualification of biomarkers and to support analytical and clinical 
validation of biomarkers that can provide objective measures to replace or compliment 
subjective classifications of disease diagnosis or progression. 
b.  Advance biomarker and clinical tool validation to reduce disease heterogeneity in clinical 
trials by refining clinical disease classification or inform reproducible patient stratification 
based on risk factors in therapeutic areas with unmet need. 
c.  Assess concordance between animal and human biomarkers of toxicity and determine how 
the performance of these biomarkers and their interpretation may vary across different organ 
systems and human populations. 
d.  Evaluate the biomarkers and the role of the microbiome in contributing to adverse responses 
through alterations in metabolism or other mechanisms, especially in pediatrics, and the 
associated long-term health impact. 
e.  Evaluate strategies for validation of innovative biomarkers or clinical tools that offer a 
sensitive and specific reflection of the pathophysiologic state for progressive diseases with 
unmet need. 
f.  Investigate precision medicine and biomarkers for predicting medical device performance, 
disease diagnosis and progression. 
g.   Identify and evaluate improved clinical endpoints and related biomarkers for trials in areas 
where optimal endpoints are lacking (e.g., efficacy and safety endpoints for osteoarthritis in 
humans and animals, for gene therapy, for transplant-related studies (endpoints and 
duration), for tumor vaccines, and for stem cell-derived therapies). 
2.  Drugs:  
a.  Evaluate strategies for assessment of innovative non-biomarker drug development tools that 
offer a sensitive and specific reflection of pathology or treatment responses. 
3.  Immuno-Oncology 
a.  Develop biomarkers and/or pharmacodynamic end points to demonstrate the effect of ICI 
in cancer immunotherapies or as part of a combination regimen in treatment-naïve and 
immuno-therapy resistance settings. 
b.  Develop technologies and approaches that better predict or characterize atypical response 
patterns to ICI such as radiomics, circulating tumor DNA, and/or novel approaches for 
immune cell profiling of the micro-environment. 
4.  Precision Oncology: 
a.   Identify biomarkers (including liquid biopsy biomarkers) for escalation/de-escalation of 
treatments in the neoadjuvant, adjuvant or advanced disease settings; 
15 
  
b.  Conduct studies to compare the performance of local and centralized molecular tests used 
for patient enrollment on cancer clinical trials; 
c.  Conduct studies to understand why tumors located at different organ sites with molecular 
alterations in the same target respond differently to therapies to inform future potential tumor 
agnostic drug development; 
d.  Conduct retrospective or prospective studies/biomarker evaluations to understand if there 
are differences in response to targeted cancer treatment based on somatic vs. germline 
alterations of the target gene. 
5.  Pediatric Oncology: 
a.  Development of preclinical models (e.g., patient-derived xenograft models, orthotopic mouse 
models, organoids) of pediatric tumors to facilitate decision-making regarding the evaluation 
of emerging novel agents potentially applicable to tumors which predominantly occur in the 
pediatric population; 
b.  Investigations using text mining and artificial intelligence to analyze, assess and interpret the 
scientific literature and other public databases of genomic and transcriptomic analyses of 
pediatric cancers to: (1) identify drugs that have been used against molecular targets 
relevant in pediatric cancers and/or (2) elucidate the relevance of specific molecular targets 
to the growth and/or progression of pediatric tumors to understand and assess target 
actionability. 
6.  Health equity and special population, Oncology:  
a.  Characterize the prevalence of currently druggable biomarkers in racial/ethnic minorities and 
assess implications for enrollment in clinical trials. 
7.  Rare Cancers, Oncology: 
a.  Innovative approaches to identify new biologically-driven opportunities for clinical 
development of previously approved drugs (or drugs for which development has been 
discontinued) in rare cancers. 
8.  Women’s Health:  
a.  Identify and qualify biomarkers and study endpoints: Identify and evaluate biomarkers to be 
used in the assessment of products related to conditions that affect women and identify sex 
differences in biomarkers related to the performance of medical products. 
9.  Tobacco: 
a.  Impact of novel product use (e.g., ENDS, heated tobacco products) on biomarkers of 
exposure and biomarkers of potential harm 
b.  Identifying biomarkers of potential harm to assess short- and long-term health effects of 
tobacco products, with a focus on products other than conventional cigarettes, including 
deemed products or other novel products. 
 
E.  Clinical Outcome Assessment (COA)  
Examples: Patient-reported outcomes; Clinician reported outcomes; Performance outcomes, Patient 
focused drug development.  
 
1.  Devices: 
a.  Develop methods for predicting and monitoring clinical performance of devices and 
materials. 
2.  Minority Health:  
a.  Foster and assess the development of culturally and linguistically appropriate clinical 
outcome assessments and biomarkers to better understand health inequities and develop 
improved medical products; 
16 
  
b.  Conduct studies among racial and ethnic minorities and underserved groups (e.g., rural, 
elderly) that investigate patient preferences in benefit-risk assessments to advance 
understanding and aid regulatory decisions. 
3.  Oncology patient-focused drug development:   
a.  Investigate measurement characteristics for new and existing patient-reported global items 
quantifying overall side effect impact such as the FACIT GP5 item for patients undergoing 
anti-cancer therapy. 
b.  Implement PRO symptom and functional measures using ePRO in advanced cancer patients 
using the FDA MyStudies application to test feasibility, accuracy and ease of use. 
c.  Investigate the sensitivity and measurement characteristics of existing patient-reported 
physical function measures in patients with rare and ultra-rare cancers. 
d.  Investigate open label bias: evaluate the impact of patient’s knowledge of their treatment on 
patient-reported outcomes in cancer clinical trials. 
e.  Evaluate differences in measurement characteristics between core patient-reported 
outcomes collecting in US vs. ex-US oncology patient populations 
f.  Studies to develop and characterize symptom function measures for rare cancers to 
complement information obtained from traditional clinical trial endpoints used in regulatory 
submissions. 
g.  Support research to improve understanding of the side effects of ICIs. 
4.  Pediatric Oncology:  
a. Investigate to solicit children’s self-report of treatment related adverse events to accommodate the 
child’s voice in assessing patient tolerability of new drugs. 
F.  Complex and Novel Clinical Trial Design:  
Examples: Complex, Adaptive, Bayesian, and other novel clinical trial designs. Methods may include 
design elements and/or analysis approaches that generally require computer simulations to determine 
the statistical properties of a clinical trial (e.g., power, Type I error). Methods for considering different 
endpoints, approaches for utilizing and validating artificial intelligence, machine learning, and natural 
language processing 
 
1.  Devices:  
a.  Evaluate the effectiveness of interventions designed to enroll diverse populations in device 
clinical trials such as digital health technologies, decentralized clinical trials, 
patient/community/language navigators; 
b.  Understand the impact of remote assessments and decentralized procedures (e.g., e- 
consent, telemedicine, collecting laboratory and/or imaging data from local facilities) on 
underrepresented subgroups participating in device clinical trials; 
c.  Develop framework for assessing clinical site readiness to achieve adequate enrollment of 
participants from historically under-represented racial/ethnic subgroups in medical device 
clinical trials. 
d.  Medical device studies incorporating use of telemedicine and/or decentralized approaches 
(e.g., collecting laboratory and/or imaging data from local facilities) for patient assessments to 
facilitate clinical trial enrollment. 
2.  Oncology:  
a.  Develop novel statistical approaches for using external controls in oncology trials, which could 
supplement concurrent control arm data and address key challenges such as differences in 
eligibility criteria, exposure, and outcomes between external control and clinical trial patients; 
bias, and rapidly evolving standards of care. 
b.  Develop statistical methods to assess bias and misclassification when RWD is used in 
estimating treatment effect. 
c.  Multi-disciplinary research that includes expert clinical and statistical input addressing how 
external control data can be used as supportive data to isolate the treatment effect of 
experimental combination therapies. 
17 
  
d.  Develop innovative clinical trial designs to find the optimal dose for oncology therapeutics. 
3.  Pediatric Oncology:   
a.  Evaluate (in collaboration with statistical experts) novel study designs for small populations 
including Bayesian approached to borrowing from adult data and relaxed type 1 error 
considerations to facilitate randomized trials wherever possible. 
b.  Translational research to design and develop rational combination regimens for pediatric 
patients that may include immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) and other treatments (e.g., 
chemotherapy, vaccines, radiation) based on strong scientific rationale that addresses the 
current data suggesting lack of activity of single agent ICIs in pediatric tumors. 
4.  Immuno-Oncology:  
a.  Develop clinical trial endpoints that account for atypical response patterns and more fully 
characterize the clinical benefit of ICI and other cancer immunotherapies. 
b.  Develop clinical trial designs that can help capture atypical response to ICI and other cancer 
immunotherapies and can facilitate therapeutic development in immune-therapy resistant 
settings. 
5.  Neo-antigen-based therapies, Oncology:  
a.  Implement innovative clinical trial designs for a group of cell or neoantigen-based 
therapies that were developed using a common platform (but target distinct antigens) to 
compare safety and clinical activity among products to identify the most promising 
candidates for further development. 
6.  Health equity and special population, Oncology: 
a.   Evaluate the effectiveness of interventions designed to enroll diverse populations in oncology 
clinical trials such as digital health technologies, decentralized clinical trials, 
patient/community/language navigators. 
b.  Understand the impact of remote assessments and decentralized procedures (e.g., e- 
consent, telemedicine, collecting laboratory and/or imaging data from local facilities) on 
underrepresented subgroups participating in oncology clinical trials. 
c.   Develop framework for assessing clinical site readiness to achieve adequate enrollment of 
participants from historically under-represented racial/ethnic subgroups in therapeutic 
oncology clinical trials. 
d.  Studies in rare cancers incorporating use of telemedicine and/or decentralized approaches 
(e.g., collecting laboratory and/or imaging data from local facilities) for patient assessments to 
facilitate enrollment of patients with rare cancers. 
7.  Minority Health:  
a.  Utilize large, pooled clinical trial datasets to identify potential trial endpoints, explore 
differences in specific populations and subpopulations (e.g., stage of disease, chronic disease 
states, sex, gender, race and ethnicity, pediatrics, and age groups) and different subsets of 
diseases, improve understanding of relationships between clinical parameters and outcomes, 
and evaluate clinical utility of potential biomarkers; 
b.  Improve clinical study design and conduct to better identify and evaluate possible differences 
related to sex and gender, racial and ethnic minorities, and/or pediatric populations, related to 
FDA-regulated products. 
c.  Identify develop and evaluate data sources and efficient techniques for data mining, data 
linkage, and large data set analysis that can be used to assess the safety and effectiveness of 
FDA-regulated products among racial and ethnic minorities and underserved populations; 
d.  Identify methods to improve data collection in clinical trials for racial and ethnic minorities, as 
well as rural and underserved populations (rural, elderly), including the use of remote clinical 
trials and evidence generation tools to support remote clinical trials. 
8.  Rare Diseases:  
a.  Develop natural history studies on both prevalent and rare diseases to identify disease 
subsets/phenotypes amenable to differential approaches for therapy or management, and 
possibly with novel biomarkers for their identification; 
18 
  
b.  In particular for orphan products, effectiveness of programs and incentives to address unmet 
medical needs in the rare disease population and FDA's use of flexibility for rare disease 
medical product development and approvals. 
9.  Women’s Health:  
a.  Improve clinical study design and conduct to examine diseases and conditions primarily 
affecting women across the lifespan, including during pregnancy, lactation, and pre- and post- 
menopause. 
i.   Develop analytical methods for interpreting and using data on sex differences from trials 
and studies with small sample sizes. 
ii.   Identify and evaluate best practices for the recruitment and retention of women in clinical 
trials (e.g., new strategies, approaches). 
iii.  Identify appropriate endpoints and outcome measures, including patient reported outcome 
measures, for diseases or medical products that may affect women differently from men 
(e.g., certain types of cardiovascular disease present differently in men than in women). 
10. Tobacco: Incorporate machine learning into clinical studies identifying unique biomarkers of 
potential harm associated with specific products or product types. 
 
G.  Predictive Toxicology  
Examples (include traditional and novel methods): Biocompatibility; Microphysiological systems; Identify 
potential toxicity; Determine acceptable and safe dose levels; Comparative and rare toxicity; Identify 
human relevance of toxicity findings  
 
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a. Develop new animal models that better mimic diseases to better understand the potential 
influence of disease progression and risk factors, including disease co-morbidities on the 
emergence of adverse events. 
b. Evaluate the accuracy (specificity and sensitivity) with which animal models and in-vitro 
assays better predict potential human and animal risk, both overall and/or in sub-
populations (e.g., pediatric populations). 
c. Promote a better understanding of toxicity mechanisms by evaluating safety assessment 
data at multiple levels of biological organization including genes, proteins, pathways, and 
cell/organ function. 
d. Toxicologic and pharmacologic tools to assess and characterize molecular targets, host 
genetic and inflammatory factors that may be associated with rare and unexpected adverse 
events (“off-target” drug effects). 
e.  Develop and use microphysiological systems and modeling approaches to predict toxicity.  
2.  Tobacco:  
a. Develop new methods that can assess toxicokinetics and toxicodynamics of nicotine across 
different routes of exposure and its contribution to cancer and non-cancer toxicological risk. 
b.  Evaluate critical toxicity mechanisms and modes of action for key constituents of ENDS and 
other new and emerging tobacco products, including Harmful and Potentially Harmful 
Constituents (HPHCs) that drive cancer and non-cancer toxicological risk. 
c. Develop computational toxicological models to predict toxicity from a mixture of ingredients or 
HPHCs in aerosols or smoke from ENDS and other new and emerging tobacco products or 
their constituents. 
 
H.  Methods for Assessing Behavioral, Economic, or Human Factors  
Examples: Human factors or usability engineering processes; Qualitative and quantitative social and 
behavioral data analysis; Usability and optimization of interactions between the FDA regulated product 
and the user(s) including elements such as displays, controls, packaging, product labels, instructions for 
use, etc.  
 
1.  Drugs:  
19 
  
a.  Human Factors considerations for biosimilars and generics: 
i.  Evaluate whether the comparative use human factors study methodology described in the 
draft Guidance, Comparative Analyses and Related Comparative Use Human Factors 
Studies for a Drug-Device Combination Product Submitted in an ANDA: Draft Guidance for 
Industry, is an acceptable approach to assess whether differences in the user interfaces 
between a proposed interchangeable product and a reference product will lead to a 
difference in safe and effective use when the interchangeable product is substituted for the 
reference product. 
ii.  Develop an acceptable methodology, or acceptable methodologies, to assess whether 
differences in the user interfaces between a proposed biosimilar interchangeable product 
and a reference product will lead to a difference in safe and effective use when the 
interchangeable product is substituted for the reference product.   
iii.  Produce data that provides scientific clarity about (1) what user interface differences may 
affect the safe and effective use of the biosimilar interchangeable product as compared to 
the reference product when the biosimilar interchangeable product is substituted for the 
reference product, or (2) when the differences in the user interfaces between a proposed 
interchangeable product and a reference product should be further evaluated to determine 
if they affect safe and effective use of the biosimilar interchangeable product as compared 
to the reference product when the interchangeable product is substituted for the reference 
product.  
b.  Proprietary Name Evaluation:  Identify a methodology that can determine the risk of name 
confusion medication errors between proprietary names for drug products in the health IT 
world (e.g., Computerized physician order entry, automatic dispensing cabinets, smart pumps, 
electronic health records, etc.).  The goal is for FDA to be able to apply such methodology 
towards a regulatory determination on the acceptability of a proposed proprietary name.  
 
I.  Approaches to Incorporate Patient and Consumer Input 
Examples: Patient and consumer preferences and perspectives; Empowering patients and consumers to 
make better-informed decisions 
 
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a.  Collect and use patient input in regulatory decision-making. Patients are increasingly 
providing their input to spur patient-centric medical product development and to inform 
patient-centric regulation; 
b.  Develop and validate methods for collecting patient experience data; 
c.  Correlate these patient experience data to product quality management maturity at the firm 
level; 
d.  Perform patient preference studies in preference sensitive areas for use in regulatory 
decision making (e.g. understanding benefit-risk tradeoffs, improving clinical trial designs, or 
prioritizing treatment outcomes). 
2.  Devices:  
a.  Explore human factors engineering principles in device and combination product design and 
review.  
3.  Health equity and special population, Oncology: 
a.  Conduct qualitative research to understand barriers to including underrepresented groups in 
oncology clinical trials (e.g., access to clinical trial sites, patient and/or physician preference, 
and/or other structural, operational, or trial-specific barriers). 
b.  Identify best practices for enrolling underrepresented subgroups in oncology clinical trials, 
including patient-, physician-, and community-focused approaches. 
 
J.  Methods to Assess Real-World Data (RWD) to serve as Real-World Evidence (RWE)  
Examples: Generation of RWD from electronic health records (EHRs), claims and billing activities, 
product and disease registries, patient-generated health data including in home-use settings, and/or data 
20 
  
gathered from other sources that can inform on health status, such as mobile devices;  Analysis and 
assessment methods of RWD; RWE generation from RWD such as registries, observational data, 
electronic health records, claims data, diagnostic data, patient-generated health data) are “fit-for-
purpose” to serve as real-world evidence  
 
1.  Cross-cutting 
a. Leverage existing and future data to develop new tools and methodologies to harness big data 
and real-world data (e.g., data derived from electronic health records (EHRs); medical claims 
and billing data; data from product and disease registries; patient-generated health data, 
including from in- home-use settings; and data gathered from other sources that can inform on 
health status, such as digital heath technologies (DHTs) like wearables or mobile applications) 
to support regulatory decision-making. 
b. Advance methodologies to generate clinical evidence from real-world data sufficient to support 
regulatory use: 
i.  Incorporate real-world data (RWD) sources in innovative clinical trial designs, 
ii.  Demonstrate how clinical evidence generated from real-world data could inform 
randomized controlled trials for regulatory use, 
iii.  Develop and validate tools and models that assess fitness of real-world data to 
support regulatory decision making, 
iv.  Develop and validate methods to predict medical product performance using real-
world data, 
v.  Using a collaborative approach, identify high-priority areas for development of real-
world data source methodology that meet stakeholder needs, 
vi.  Evaluate methods of observational study design with a focus on identifying and/or 
addressing sources of (methodological) bias, 
vii.  Explore methodological reasons for discordant findings among randomized and 
observational analyses addressing the same clinical topic involving FDA- regulated 
products, 
viii.  Advance causal inference based on real-world evidence (RWE); 
c. Leverage existing and future data to compare use of RWD and generation of RWE with more 
traditional approach methods for data collection and evidence generation; 
d. Develop and demonstrate tools for assessing uncertainty around data elements and drives for 
RWE study findings. 
e. Methods to evaluate the capture, transmission, aggregation, analysis, and use of DHTs to 
support medical product development and assessment 
f. Explore the use of data from DHTs to inform public health decision-making 
g. Support the capture, harmonization, transmission, aggregation, analysis, and use of high-
quality, interoperable diagnostic data from real-world settings to evaluate in vitro diagnostic 
devices and other medical product performance during clinical trial development and 
premarket review 
h. Explore how real-world data obtained from in vitro diagnostic devices can be used to inform 
public health decision-making in the premarket setting 
2.  Biologics:  
a. Develop methods and conduct studies that replicate findings of randomized controlled trials of 
CBER-regulated biologic products using regulatory quality real-world data for specific studies 
of biologic products. 
3.  Oncology:  
a. Developing approaches to evaluate, integrate, and facilitate the use of oncology RWD, e.g., 
electronic health records, administrative health claims, drug or disease registries, patient 
reported or generated health data to generate high quality RWE is an active area of regulatory 
science as noted in the 21st Century Cures Act.  Methodologically rigorous studies which 
expand upon the need to evaluate innovative study designs, (e.g., pragmatic, hybrid) RWD 
quality, statistical approaches, and real-world endpoints specifically through scientific research 
studies, metric or framework development, or standardized definitions, are encouraged. 
21 
  
Specific examples of interest are included in the immuno-oncology, health equity and special 
populations in oncology drug development, oncology trial designs, endpoints and statistical 
methodologies, pediatric oncology, oncology safety, and rare cancers sections of this 
document. 
b. Develop, define and test real-world oncology endpoints from RWD that could be used to 
generate RWE to complement traditional clinical trial data submitted to FDA, particularly the 
development of measures of real-world response 
c. Explore and define RWD quality to consider factors including data variable collection, 
missingness, specificity, sensitivity, data validation, harmonization, data provenance, data 
linkage, and the potential capability to make accurate inferences from the available data. 
4.  Pediatric Oncology:  
a. Investigations to explore opportunities to develop acceptable external control arms from using 
RWE to aid in accelerating new drug approvals for childhood cancer. 
5.  Precision Oncology:  
a. Develop methodologies to inform evidence generation (clinical trial design; use of real-world 
data for liquid biopsy diagnostics that are assessing multiple cancer types simultaneously for 
early detection indications (multicancer early detection [MCED]). 
6.  Immuno-Oncology:  
a. Analyze RWD to understand the utilization and impact of complementary in vitro diagnostics in 
cancer immunotherapy. 
7.  Health equity and special population, Oncology:  
a. Conduct RWD studies to improve understanding of safety and efficacy of drugs in 
underrepresented groups such as analyses of low-grade toxicities, symptom function 
measures, and co-morbidities; 
b. Study RWD to understand patterns of care and clinical outcomes in sexual and gender 
minorities with cancer. 
8.  Women’s Health: 
a.  Evaluate methodologies for the identification of clinically relevant sex differences, using a 
variety of RWD sources 
b.  Conduct studies using RWD to evaluate the toxicity or the safety, effectiveness, and health 
effects of FDA-regulated products used by women, including the examination of sex 
differences  
c.  Develop efficient data mining and analysis techniques that can be used on RWD sets that can 
specifically identify women’s health issues on a larger scale.  
9.  Rare Diseases:  
a. Explore mechanisms to support and expedite development of approved drugs for non-cancer 
rare disease indications (i.e., repurposing) such as analyzing RWD (e.g. registries) to inform 
screening and evaluation of drugs in rare populations. 
10. Rare Cancers, Oncology:  
a. Studies to investigate the natural history of rare cancers to provide clinical and scientific 
context to inform the design and interpretation of clinical trials; 
 
K.  Methods to Assess Data Source Interoperability 
Examples: Development of methods, tools, framework and data sources for safe, secure, effective, 
portable, and interoperable exchange of information among one or more FDA regulated products, 
technologies, or systems. 
 
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a.  Develop standards for data quality and data sources that increase the quality, interoperability, 
and usability of real-world data; 
b.  Design and optimize data infrastructure to facilitate information exchange and data extraction. 
 
II. Strengthen post-market surveillance and labeling of regulated products 
22 
  
 
The following focus areas of regulatory science are identified to accomplish Charge II, strengthen post-market 
surveillance and labeling of FDA-regulated products:  
 
A.  Methods to Assess Real-World Data (RWD) to Support Regulatory Decision-Making 
Examples: Generating evidence regarding safety and effectiveness using RWD for FDA regulated 
products; Supporting FDA’s regulatory decisions of effectiveness using RWE informed by RWD; 
Development and application of methods for RWE generating using RWD for post-market 
surveillance of FDA regulated products. 
 
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a.  Refine methods for analysis of post-market data, including data mining of spontaneous 
reports and analysis of data accessible from large healthcare databases and electronic 
health records. 
b.  Leverage real-world evidence and employ evidence synthesis and linkage across multiple 
domains to support regulatory decision-making; 
c.  Enhance FDA’s capacity to assess death and cause of death as an outcome of product 
safety and/or effectiveness in large electronic healthcare databases; 
d.  Support the capture, harmonization, transmission, aggregation, analysis, and use of high-
quality, interoperable diagnostic data from real-world settings to aid in post-market review 
and/or surveillance of safety and performance of in vitro diagnostic devices and other 
medical products; 
e.  Explore how real-world data obtained from in vitro diagnostic devices during post-market 
surveillance and data collection can be used to inform public health decision-making. 
2.  Devices: 
a.  Develop approaches for collecting data on mortality and reuse among patients exposed to 
capital and reusable devices and how to integrate within electronic health records (EHR), 
administrative claims, or other RWD 
 
3.  Drugs:  
a.  Studies to evaluate the safety of approved drug products: Identify RWD or other data sources 
and methods to evaluate the impact of REMS on patient access to REMS drugs and REMS-
related administrative burdens to healthcare providers and healthcare systems. 
4.  Oncology safety:  
a.  Develop approaches for collecting medical product safety data from RWD sources to 
expand understanding of the safety profile of approved oncology products in clinical 
practice; 
b.   Develop approaches using RWD sources to evaluate the toxicity profile of approved 
products in cancer patients with a history of or active COVID-19 infection including any 
increase in known drug adverse reactions or new toxicities, longitudinal sequelae, and 
outcomes; 
c.  Analyze RWD to help understand which patients are most likely to experience cardiotoxicity 
(or other types of severe toxicity) during cancer treatment. 
 
B.  Using and Validating Artificial Intelligence Approaches 
Examples: Machine learning; Deep learning; Natural language processing 
 
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a. Develop and validate a tool that uses natural language processing, machine learning or 
artificial intelligence to semi-automate review of medical charts to improve, expedite, and lower 
chart review costs. 
23 
  
b. Develop and improve the efficiency of signal detection/data collection methods and operations 
such as computable phenotype generation in support of future post-market active surveillance 
systems for medical products. 
c. Develop and evaluate risk-based methods for the validation and implementation of artificial 
intelligence approaches in the development, manufacturing, and quality system activities for 
medical products 
2.  Devices: 
a. Develop and validate methods to assess algorithm performance, including techniques to 
manage bias for artificial intelligence/machine learning-enabled medical devices 
3.  Drugs:  
a. Studies to increase the safety of post-approval drug use: Evaluate the capacity of big data 
analytics to empirically prioritize safe medication use issues within one or more health 
systems. Empiric prioritization could potentially complement expert-derived prioritization due to 
its speed, agility, and responsiveness to contextual factors within a health system; 
b.  Studies to evaluate the safety of approved drug products:  
i.   Develop and refine data analysis methods (e.g., control charts) to better understand 
provider and patient adherence to REMS requirements leveraging data from external 
sources such as insurance claims and electronic health records. Evaluate whether use 
of controls charts prospectively is feasible to assess for adherence to REMS 
requirements in real time. 
ii.  Explore and apply the use of NLP models and advanced algorithmic and unsupervised 
machine learning (ML) techniques to analyze medication error reports submitted to 
FAERS, including techniques to identify and assess human factors, contributing factors, 
data quality, and other variables. 
4.  Women’s Health:  
a. Develop and evaluate data sources and efficient techniques for data mining, linkage, and 
large-scale analysis that can be used to assess real-world evidence, including post-market 
safety and utilization of FDA-regulated products to specifically identify sex and gender 
differences or women’s health issues. 
 
b. Identify, develop, and evaluate data sources and efficient techniques for data mining, data 
linkage, and large data set analysis that can be used to assess the safety and effectiveness of 
FDA-regulated products, to specifically identify women’s health issues. 
 
C.  Novel Clinical Trial Design, Statistical and Epidemiologic Methods   
Examples: Novel and advanced methods to improve post-marketing surveillance of FDA regulated 
products 
 
1.  Cross-cutting 
a. Develop methods to harness clinical evidence and enhance evidence synthesis to leverage 
RWD from multiple domains; 
b. Develop statistical methods for assisting compliance inspection. 
c. Advance methods for endpoint adjudication/validation to incorporate predictive RWD analysis 
and/or probability that determination impacts study findings 
2.  Oncology Safety:  
a. Develop improved and standardized approaches to collect and analyze cardiotoxicity data in 
the context of clinical trials and clinical practice. 
b. Conduct basic, translational or clinical studies that investigate the underlying causes of cardiac 
toxicities associated with approved oncology agents. 
c. Develop novel approaches to utilize AI/ML to mine different data sources (e.g., EHRs, claims, 
clinical trial data) for safety signal identification and/or characterization of oncology 
therapeutics. 
24 
  
D.  Automated Reporting Tools for Adverse Events and Active Surveillance 
Examples: Develop and/or enhance passive and active surveillance systems, frameworks, and/or methods 
for post-market safety and effectiveness of FDA regulated products 
 
1.  Cross-cutting: Develop assessment tools to support facility and product surveillance and 
monitoring of quality systems and processes: 
a.  Advance the study of quality management maturity, capability maturity, and organizational 
excellence; including quality metrics and quality culture, supply chain oversight, inventory 
management, application of risk management, manufacturing operations, quality management 
systems, and continuous improvement in domestic and foreign establishments. Adaptable and 
reproducible approaches are needed to inform consistent assessment of robustness of a 
manufacturer’s quality management maturity. Develop methods for data collection, validation, 
and assessment of appropriate and robust metrics; 
b.  Advance statistical methodology, including data mining and machine learning, for 
assessing disparate data types and sources in the evaluation of products, manufacturing 
facilities and quality systems and processes to support post-market quality surveillance 
programs; 
c. Develop and evaluate methods for prioritizing quality defect report assessment, surveillance 
sampling, and surveillance inspection scheduling; 
d.  Develop and evaluate methods for estimating the state of quality for products and facilities 
that enable cross-sectional comparisons and quantitative ratings; 
e.  Advance methodologies to conduct modular active surveillance statistical analysis while 
accounting for patient privacy and maintaining line-level data with data holder. 
2.  Drugs:  
a. Improve scientific approaches to evaluate generic drugs: post market evaluation of generics 
drug to develop surveillance and monitoring methods for generic drug substitutions and 
characterize patient perceptions of generic drug quality and effectiveness. 
b. Studies to increase the safety of post-approval drug use: Develop innovative methods to 
create, facilitate and encourage research in the area of safe medication use that seeks to 
reduce preventable harm from drugs; 
i.  Approaches could include the use of clinical studies, innovative messaging strategies, 
electronic health records, data mining, patient generated data, or mobile technologies, but 
this list is not exhaustive and innovative methods and approaches are encouraged. Sub 
areas of research interest include but are not limited to the following: 
a)  Test safe use interventions that advance the field of implementation science within 
the healthcare system. Develop systems engineering approaches that could serve 
as a foundation to address multiple safe use issues; 
b)  Determine if new safe use management options might potentially be available for 
one or more identified medication safety risks as a result of the emerging precision 
medicine evidence base. Risks that have been probabilistically associated with 
medications through epidemiologic study in populations may be mediated by 
factors such as genetic polymorphisms in individuals. Knowledge of individual 
factors could guide therapeutic decisions and enhance safe use; 
c)  Target populations may be broad (e.g., when addressing a common high-burden 
disease) or may be narrow, focusing on an unmet medical need in a vulnerable 
population (e.g., very young or elderly, minorities, women, veterans, economically 
disadvantaged groups, stigmatized populations, or those with a disability. 
c. Improve scientific approaches for conducting postmarket surveillance of drugs: Compare 
safety alerting patterns generated using data mining methods between electronic health record 
databases and the FAERS database in terms of traditional performance metrics, signal 
characteristics, and time to detection. 
3.  Oncology Safety:  
25 
  
a. Conduct translational studies that investigate underlying causes of recent safety alerts issued 
by FDA oncology. 
E.  Methods to Improve Communication About Risk to Patients and Consumers  
Examples: REMS, safety recalls for medical products, food safety recalls), and support patient decision-
making (e.g., patient-specific labeling, patient decision aids); Patient and consumer input; Qualitative and 
quantitative social and behavioral data analysis for post-market 
 
1.  Devices 
a. Promote user-centered transparency of digital health medical devices (e.g., artificial 
intelligence/machine learning-enabled devices, virtual reality devices) 
b. Promote user-centered transparency of recall communication, including determining 
appropriate level of detail in communication for patients and timing of communication 
2.  Drugs: Studies to evaluate the safety of approved drug products:  
a.  Improve the quality and effectiveness of Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy (REMS) 
programs while minimizing program-related burden and access barriers. 
b.  Identify and evaluate best practices for healthcare provider and patient engagement in 
REMS design and modification. 
c. Identify and develop validated REMS assessment metrics, outputs, and outcomes (including 
performance thresholds) indicating at which point REMS goals and objectives have been 
achieved. 
3.  Women’s Health 
a.  Identify how factors such as sex, gender, age, literacy level, native language can affect a 
woman’s understanding of FDA product information and its influence on her subsequent health-
related decisions  
b. Evaluate the reach and impact of FDA communications about FDA-regulated products used by 
women, including but not limited to identifying and evaluating methods for communicating:  
i. FDA information to special populations of women, including elderly women, women with 
disabilities, caregivers, pregnant and lactating women, and women with limited English 
proficiency  
 ii. Specific information about sex and gender differences  
iii. Risks of certain medical product exposures, food consumption (e.g., seafood), and the use 
of tobacco products during pregnancy and lactation  
iv. Information about drug exposure during breast-feeding  
d.   Explore methods for using social media to identify gaps in knowledge,     misinformation, 
or sentiments about specific women’s health issues and related FDA regulated products.  
 
F.  Approach to Expand Data Capacity, and Increase Data Quality and Use     
Examples: Data expansion, modernization, and enhancement to improve post-market safety 
surveillance and labelling 
 
1.  Cross-Cutting:  
a. Identify and develop interfaces to access new, large medical databases such as EHR, claims, 
registries, and others to improve safety and effectiveness evaluations of patient subpopulations 
such as pediatric, elderly, rare diseases, evaluation of sex differences, different genders, and 
geographical location. 
2.  Minority health:  
a. Develop and analyze large scale clinical data sets to determine comparability of non- US data 
to the US population and refine methods for analysis of large healthcare databases and 
electronic health records to advance understanding of treatment outcomes by racial and ethnic 
minorities.  
 
G.  Efforts to Harmonize Existing and Emerging Data Standards  
Examples: Methods and frameworks to improve the quality, accessibility, shareability of data 
26 
  
standards applied for post-market surveillance 
 
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a. Improve existing or develop new approaches to enhance quality and consistency of regulatory 
submission data, and to harmonize standards for data synthesized across multiple sources, 
including data captured from in vitro diagnostic devices  
b. Harmonize healthcare and clinical research data standards including their value sets; maintain 
the mappings provenance across standards 
c. Enhance existing implementation guides for data standards  
 
III. Invigorate public health preparedness and response of the FDA, patients, and 
consumers 
 
The following focus areas of regulatory science are identified to accomplish Charge III, invigorate public health 
preparedness and response of the FDA, patients, and consumers: 
 
A.  Reinforce Medical Countermeasures Initiative (MCMi) to Increase Preparedness and Response for 
Emerging Public Health Threats 
Examples: Medical countermeasures, or MCMs, are FDA-regulated products (biologics, drugs, devices) 
that may be used in the event of a potential public health emergency.   Under the  MCMi, FDA seeks to 
facilitate development of safe and effective MCMs through both intramural research and collaboration 
with external partners (e.g., academia, U.S. government agencies, non- governmental organizations, and 
industry). The FDA’s MCM regulatory science mission is to develop the tools, standards, and approaches 
to assess the safety, quality, and performance of MCMs and to help translate cutting-edge science and 
technology into innovative, safe, and effective MCMs. 
 
1.  Develop and fully characterize tools to support MCM development under the Animal Rule or 
Accelerated Approval: 
a. Advance the capability to conduct natural history studies necessary to support MCM development 
under the Animal Rule (e.g., further the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms of 
toxicity, species specificity, or virulence of challenge agents); 
b. Develop improved in-silico models to extrapolate pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) 
data from animals to humans (e.g., PK modeling, PK/PD modeling, physiologically-based 
pharmacokinetic (PBPK) modeling, or population modeling); 
c. Develop, qualify, and/or facilitate innovative analytical technology or quantitative imaging modality 
assessments of tissues/cells infected with emergent diseases and biological threats in order to 
advance characterization and further scientific understanding of pathophysiological mechanisms of 
infection, disease progression, susceptibility, or virulence; 
d. Identify and qualify biomarkers and immune correlates of protection that enhance the 
understanding of the mechanism of action of MCMs, support appropriate clinical dosing of MCMs, 
and enable comparisons to be made between animal models and humans; 
e. Develop and qualify in vitro systems (e.g., microphysiological systems) that can accurately predict 
in vivo responses in humans to complement the use of in vivo animal models to assess safety and 
efficacy of MCMs; 
f. Identify and evaluate biomarkers and predictors of harm, susceptibility, latency, or virulence of 
emergent diseases and biological threats using innovative analytical technologies, imaging 
modalities, and other advanced approaches (e.g. omics); 
2.  Enhance the quality and utility of diagnostic data:  
a.  Support enhanced data agility of data collection using medical devices and through the 
use of enhanced data collection methods associated with medical products that could be 
harnessed during public health emergencies 
27 
  
3.  Modernize tools to evaluate MCM product safety, efficacy, and quality; and secure the MCM supply 
chain 
a. Enhance capabilities to rapidly assess the safety, efficacy and/or effectiveness of MCMs used 
during public health emergencies including: 
i.  Develop and refine tools and methodologies to collect, monitor, track, and analyze real-
world data and real-world evidence to support regulatory and public health decision 
making, 
ii.  Develop capabilities to inform or support multisite/multi-center clinical studies including 
pre-positioned protocols, rapid and flexible clinical trial designs, novel statistical methods 
for analysis of clinical data, and clinical trial networks; 
b. Develop and validate reference materials and datasets to facilitate the development of medical 
products related to relevant CBRN threat agents and emerging infectious diseases; 
c. Develop new tools and methodologies to leverage large, unstructured data sets for analysis of 
MCM-relevant safety and efficacy endpoints; 
d. Develop technologies that can rapidly detect counterfeit, substandard, or adulterated MCMs; 
e. Develop technologies that can support the rapid assessment of MCMs for shelf-life extension; 
f. Develop technologies and methods to monitor and predict disruptions in medical device/medical 
product supply chain security due to technological or CBRN threats; 
g. Explore novel approaches, technologies, and platforms to increase the availability of suppliers, 
flexibility and ability to respond to supply disruptions, and streamline supply chains. 
4.  Advance the development of tools to enable the rapid development and availability of investigational 
MCMs 
a. Develop and validate rapid testing methods to speed characterization, in-process testing, and/or 
lot release for MCMs (e.g. sterility, immunogenicity, neurovirulence, mycoplasma, etc.); 
b. Develop technologies and methods to accelerate collection of MCM-relevant clinical safety and 
efficacy endpoints; 
c. Develop methods using digital design and manufacturing data to increase efficiency of review; 
d. Develop technologies to support the adoption of advanced manufacturing technologies for MCMs 
e. Evaluate methods for facilitating and incentivizing the production and development of MCMs or 
MCM supply chain within the U.S 
f. Develop and/or advance the capability to conduct in vitro or in vivo assessments with emergent 
infectious diseases or biological threats, at greater than or equal to Biosafety level 3 containment, 
in order to: 
i.  Identify measurable characteristics of toxicological effects, safety and efficacy when 
evaluating therapeutic regimens and/or interventions to enable translational comparisons 
between animal model species and humans and to support clinical dosing; or 
ii.  Identify interactions between therapeutics, characteristics of alternative models of special 
populations, and disease variables influencing efficacy and adverse event outcomes. 
5.  Rare Diseases:  
a.  Develop drugs for emerging or sporadic diseases- e.g. MERS, drug resistant outbreaks 
and for underserved populations e.g. neonates, pregnant and lactating women. 
6.  Minority Health:  
a.  Evaluate strategies for the prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of COVID-19 for potential 
sex- and gender-, racial- and ethnic minorities-, and/or pediatric- based health effects. Explore 
strategies to enhance medical product development for diseases and populations with limited or 
absent approved treatment options. 
7.  Women’s Health:  
a.  Explore the impact of COVID-19 and the use of novel therapies on women’s health, including the 
effect during pregnancy and lactation. 
b.  Examine the impact of COVID-19 on women’s health across the lifespan (e.g., pregnant, 
lactating, pre- and post-menopausal and older women). 
 
B.  Antimicrobial Resistance 
Examples: Combat antibacterial and antifungal drug resistance; Facilitate the development of new 
28 
  
antibacterial and antifungal drugs to treat patients; methods used to evaluate and improve 
product labeling of antimicrobial drugs 
 
1.  Drugs:  
a.  Advance the science of antibacterial drug susceptibility testing to ensure that up to date 
susceptibility testing criteria (breakpoints) are available for patient care and antimicrobial 
stewardship. For example, provide updated data from microbiologic surveillance studies, 
pharmacokinetic studies, including modeling, and/or clinical outcome data to support updating 
susceptibility test interpretive criteria for certain antibacterial drugs that are a high public 
health priority. For more information please visit www.fda.gov/oidresearch 
b.  Advance the science of in vitro, animal model, pharmacokinetic studies, and/or real- world 
evidence studies to facilitate drug development, including studies focused on antifungal and 
antibacterial resistance and drug development for special populations such as patients with 
unmet need, children and patients with renal or hepatic dysfunction For more information 
please visit www.fda.gov/oidresearch. 
c.  Evaluate potential innovations in clinical trial design for new drugs such as enrollment 
strategies, data collection streamlining, drug development tools, clinical endpoints, and new 
statistical analytic approaches; 
d.  Evaluate strategies to enrich enrollment in clinical trials for new drugs such as the use of rapid 
diagnostic tests. 
e.  Evaluate the utility and impact of current methods and innovate strategies to communicate 
FDA evaluations of safety and effectiveness of approved antimicrobial drugs to healthcare 
providers with the goal of appropriate use of new antimicrobial drugs. For more information 
please visit www.fda.gov/oidresearch 
 
C.  Patient and Consumer Engagement and Communication  
Examples: Engage and empower patient and consumer involvement in public health preparedness 
 
1.  Cross-cutting:  
a.  Apply social and behavioral science to empower patients and consumers, enhance FDA’s 
understanding of its audiences and decision-making about regulated products. 
b.  Assess awareness and understanding of FDA communications, especially among diverse 
audiences and populations, and identify methods to improve the comprehension of content, 
including numerical information 
i.  Identify effective ways to communicate so that patients and consumers, including those 
with low literacy/health literacy/digital literacy and limited English proficiency, are informed 
but not alarmed, assess knowledge and understanding of risk associated with use of FDA- 
approved and authorized products, assess the means of changing messages to promote 
continued attention to advice that is not new but remains important, evaluate methods to 
identify and accommodate cultural and language differences and assess the cost of these 
methods to the Government; 
ii.  Study the impact of different formats and amounts of numerical information in FDA 
communications for consumers, patients, health care providers, health educators and 
informal caregiver 
iii.  Identify elements of OTC drug labeling that are confusing to consumer, particularly 
persons with low literacy and low numeracy. Study ways to improve labeling to better 
communicate information necessary for safe and effective use. 
c.  Assess public understanding of regulatory terms to study the impact of FDA regulatory and 
scientific terminology and language on the public’s ability to comprehend FDA communications 
and identify explanatory strategies or alternatives. Examples of FDA terminology include, but are 
not limited to, the following: safe and effective, Over-The-Counter (OTC), monograph drugs, 
voluntary recall, and product correction. 
d.  Explore ways that FDA communications can best enhance audience comprehension, including to 
complement those communicated by industry and other organizations 
29 
  
i.  Develop tools for measuring the effectiveness of messages being communicated to the 
public, including those with low literacy/health literacy and limited English proficiency, by 
FDA communications, industry advertisements and other communication materials (e.g. 
webpages, social media), and messages developed by other organizations. 
f.  Evaluate timing of release of recall or warning messages, how and when these messages can 
enhance impact, and how to communicate the end of a recall or warning. 
i.  Characterize how consumers, patients, and caregivers understand these messages; 
evaluate the ideal frequency and means of changing messages in order to promote 
continued attention to advice and/or labeling/packaging that is not new but remains 
important. 
ii.  Develop best practices for communicating about recalls, including the necessary 
elements, accounting for differences in literacy/health literacy levels and level of English 
proficiency 
g.  Identify and improve science-based approaches that enhance awareness, understanding, and 
informed decision-making by patients, consumers and health care professionals to promote 
health and reduce harms of FDA-regulated products (foods, dietary supplements, cosmetics, 
and products regulated by Center for Tobacco Products are excluded). 
2.  Drugs:  
a.  Studies to evaluate the safety of approved drug products to advance the science of medication 
error prevention and analysis 
i.  Determine the incidence, public health cost burden, extent of underreporting, and causes 
of medication errors in the United States related to drug product names, labeling, 
packaging, or product design. 
ii.  Identify and evaluate data sources and methods for medication error pharmacovigilance, 
including signal detection and case assessment used by global industry, regulatory 
agencies, and other applicable sources.  
3.  Racial and Ethnic minority health:  
a.  Informing and enhancing audience understanding among diverse populations 
i.  Assess awareness of FDA communications among racial and ethnic minorities, as well 
as barriers and facilitators to use of FDA’s materials. 
ii.  Identify methods to improve the comprehension and usability of FDA communications, 
including assessing health literacy, different formats, and amounts of numerical 
information in FDA communications among those with low health literacy, low digital 
literacy, limited English proficiency, and cultural and language differences. 
iii.  Conduct studies to determine methods to improve communication strategies among 
racial and ethnic minorities and underserved populations. 
iv.  Conduct studies to inform development of FDA communications to racial and ethnic 
minorities and underserved populations. 
 
D.  Understand Substance Use and Minimize Misuse  
Examples: Opioids, Substance use disorders, Addiction to tobacco products  
 
1.  Drugs: 
1.1 Opioids 
a.   Perform research to enhance FDA’s understanding of first responder and bystander naloxone 
administration for out-of-hospital opioid overdose and how such naloxone administration has 
been impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. 
i.  Research might include methods such as stakeholder surveys (e.g., bystanders, first 
responders, emergency providers) and epidemiologic analyses of large datasets to 
understand factors in out-of-hospital naloxone administration (e.g., demographics and 
training of individuals administering naloxone; setting and circumstances; route, 
dose(s) and timing of administration; resuscitation efforts; substances involved; patient 
safety outcomes), 
30 
  
b.  Perform research to enhance FDA’s understanding of the characteristics of naloxone that 
make it effective in the context of reversing ultrapotent opioid and polysubstance overdoses; 
to characterize its clinical use; and to describe both its risks and benefits.  Research might 
include accessing datasets with information such as patient-level records with clinical course, 
patient outcomes, and robust toxicology panels to understand:  
i.  What parameters should be used to define “high dose” naloxone (e.g., dose, route, 
frequency, administration period) and how it is used in clinical practice (e.g., is a test 
dose of naloxone given to avoid high doses should withdrawal and adverse events 
occur);  
ii.  In which clinical scenarios does “high dose” naloxone appear to have benefit(s) over 
lower doses of naloxone  
a)  Key aspects of the research would be to identify all substances (opioid and non-
opioid) involved in the overdose exposure and the degree to which naloxone was 
effective  
iii.  At what dose-threshold do risks associated with naloxone use outweigh its benefits.   
a)  Key aspects of this research would be to identify, especially in the case of opioid-
stimulant co-exposures, whether naloxone administration precipitated adverse 
events.   
iv.  How does “high dose” naloxone compare to other reversal agents/strategies for patients 
presenting with ultrapotent opioid and polysubstance overdoses. 
c. Perform research to understand the relationships between buprenorphine-containing 
medication for opioid use disorder (MOUD) dosing strategies (e.g., dosing for induction, 
titration/stabilization, maintenance) and patient outcomes, including but not limited to fatal and 
nonfatal opioid-involved overdose. Consider additional factors such as use of other medications 
(e.g., opioid analgesics, anticonvulsants, anxiolytics, and other psychiatric medications); patient 
factors (e.g., pain, polysubstance use); and systemic and environmental factors (e.g., 
urbanicity, settings of care, and the evolving illicit drug supply).   
d.  Perform research to provide information on the amount (e.g., number of doses, total 
milligrams) and formulation (e.g., tablets, oral solution) of methadone dispensed from U.S. 
opioid treatment programs as take-home doses and how this has changed over time. Also 
collect information on the use of specific measures to prevent unintentional exposures in 
children (e.g., child-proof containers, patient education programs, use of locked storage boxes). 
1.2 Substance use disorders:   
a.  Perform research to enhance FDA’s understanding of, and the evidence supporting, the 
features, methods to increase uptake, impact on medication use systems, benefits, and harms 
of packaging, storage, delivery, and disposal solutions that can reduce nonmedical use, 
accidental exposure, and overdose of opioids and other drugs that pose a serious risk of abuse 
or overdose.  
i.  Examples of features that can be explored in the research include (1) the methods and 
extent of retrievability of active ingredients, (2) safety messages, (3) fixed quantity, (4) 
individual child resistant protection of each unit or dose, or (5) user interface design. 
ii.  Examples of methods to increase uptake that can be explored in the research include 
(1) order sets, (2) computerized physician order entry (CPOE) software, including 
exploration of software cues, positioning of medications, or other, (3) patient education 
iii.  Examples of impact on medication use system that can be explored in the research 
include (1) cost or economic impact  
b.  Identify and evaluate appropriate endpoints for studies undertaken to assess packaging, 
storage, delivery, and disposal solutions designed to reduce nonmedical use, accidental 
exposure, and overdose involving opioids and other drugs that pose a serious risk of abuse or 
overdose. Endpoints may include (1) rate of accidental exposures, (2) use of disposal options to 
discard leftover medication, (3) medication adherence, (4) unauthorized access of medication, 
(5) amount of leftover medication, (6) unintended consequences, and others. Compare direct 
31 
  
measures of the extent of patient disposal of opioids and other drugs that pose a serious risk of 
abuse or overdose: 
i.  Across various prescription medication disposal options (e.g., mail back envelopes) 
provided to patients, or 
ii.  When there is provision of education alone, when there is provision of a prescription 
medication disposal option alone, or when there is education plus provision of a 
prescription medication disposal option. 
c.  Conduct behavioral, economic, human factors, or other studies to assess prescriber, 
pharmacist, and patient reasons, knowledge, attitudes, beliefs, and challenges regarding 
accessing and using packaging, storage, delivery, and disposal solutions for opioids and other 
drugs that pose a serious risk of abuse or overdose.  Such studies should consider factors such 
as cost, design features, availability, usability, stigma, and perceptions of risk; 
d.  Develop methods and carry out studies to better understand the trajectory of use of controlled 
substances and associated public health consequences. 
2.  Devices: 
a.  Develop methods to leverage RWD in support of evaluation of digital health technologies 
relating to OUD and SUD  
b.  Engage academic and community medical centers, patients, and other stakeholders in the 
evidence development of digital health technologies for OUD and SUD 
3.  Tobacco:  
a.  Understand the effects of tobacco product characteristics on addiction and abuse liability 
among populations or groups that bear disproportionate burden of tobacco risk and harm. 
Priorities for addiction studies include: 1.) correlation of ENDS, other novel tobacco products, 
and non-tobacco nicotine products use behaviors with pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics 
effects of nicotine and other HPHCs delivered by ENDS, other novel tobacco products, and 
non-tobacco nicotine products; and 2.) the relationship between specific flavor categories in 
ENDS, other novel tobacco products, and non-tobacco nicotine products (including, but not 
limited to, tobacco, menthol, fruit, and sweet/dessert) and adult users’ interest in cigarette 
smoking cessation, reduced cigarette use, switching to potentially less harmful tobacco 
products, quit attempts, or tobacco cessation success. 
E.  One Health Approaches  
Examples: Opportunities to collaborate in the research, development, evaluation, testing, and scaling of 
innovative, practical and cost-effective strategies to assist with regulatory decision that address health 
issues prioritized by FDA’s Office of the Commissioner and the One Health Steering Committee 
 
1.  Cross-cutting: 
a.  Development of surveillance systems and networks integrating human, animal, and 
environmental detection and measures assisting with regulatory decisions intended to prevent 
and prepare for emerging health threats.  
b.  Develop methods to assess the impact of contaminants on human, animal, and environmental 
health, including the distribution and fate of contaminants in natural ecosystems, and develop 
tools to better assess risk and to predict how sources for human and animal exposures may 
affect the safety of human and animal food and medical products. 
c.  Develop and apply One Health methods and criteria for collecting antimicrobial use data across 
species in food and production systems to include:  
i.  Assessing direct and indirect impact of the use of antimicrobial drugs on the microbiome 
of non-targeted species; 
ii.  Implementing culture independent methods to detect and quantify bacterial pathogens and 
associated antimicrobial resistance genes in food and environmental samples;  
iii.  Establishing methods and interpretive criteria for in vitro susceptibility testing methods for 
pathogens to support prudent antimicrobial use.                          
32 
  
d.  Develop, implement, and identify educational and training opportunities in sciences and 
technologies advancing One Health. The primary focus is to enhance a transdisciplinary 
workforce knowledgeable about One Health and how to integrate One Health knowledge and 
skills in FDA’s regulatory activities.   
e.  Research enhancing One Health communication approaches and interventions influencing 
public trust, countering misinformation and disinformation, and supporting health education and 
promotion through existing mass media, social media, or other communication channels.  
f.  Develop One Health methods, which will contribute to the establishment of policies and 
programs, focusing on computer models that integrate human, animal, and environmental 
safety data to predict health risks and corroborate pre- and post-market findings for FDA-
regulated products with relevancy across species. 
g.  Research and develop measures that can be taken to improve mitigation of and response to the 
impacts of natural or man-made disasters on human and animal food and medical products, 
including supply chains. 
 
F.  Strengthen Global Product Safety Net  
Examples:  Build regulatory capacity through training, tools to strengthen surveillance systems in 
developing countries; Harness informatics to ensure the safety of FDA-regulated products, framework, or 
methods to support and collaborate with regulatory systems across the globe 
 
1.  Cross-cutting: 
a.   Determine how to promote and assure implementation of the essential elements of a strong 
regulatory system in developing economies, including (a) determining core competencies for a 
regulatory workforce and components of a global regulatory workforce curriculum, (b) assessing 
other areas related to regulatory systems’ performance including conducting, costing, and 
financing analyses for regulatory systems, and (c) identifying and assessing existing regulatory 
strengthening evaluation tools utilized by governments and international organizations; 
b.  Analyzing and utilizing global data to manage risks 
i.  Define analytical methods and tools to foster improved utilization of risk analytics to inform 
strategies, priority-setting, and timely decision-making in the areas of inspections, training, 
regulatory operation and surveillance; 
ii.  Develop predictive models that identify risks, including fraudulent products and product 
demand surges, across the supply chain regardless of the product or its origin; 
iii.  Develop predictive risk models that treat risks in ways across the supply chain regardless of 
the origin of the product 
iv.  Adopt new approaches to better aggregate and analyze multiple sources of information to 
fully identify supply chain risks and emerging trends based on comprehensive assessments 
of existing information platforms. The developed approaches should include data mining of 
intelligence-related sources (event reporting, testing results, alerts, customer complaints, 
news reports) to enable statistical analysis of correlations and threats. As an extension, 
integrate intelligence-based threat analysis into the risk- based allocation of inspection and 
testing resources; 
v.  Filter and analyze external indicators/signals/environmental vulnerabilities in the supply chain 
from various open-source intelligence and other sources to proactively identify the need for 
appropriate FDA interventions. Note: Research in this area could include the development of 
informatics tools to connect multiple sources of information such as regulatory, economic, 
environmental, political and industrial factors to detectable risk signals and emerging risk 
trends. It could also include the development of data collection and analysis systems for 
external indicators/signals/environmental vulnerabilities in the supply chain from various 
sources intelligence and other media to alert FDA at early onset of the need for appropriate 
FDA actions or interventions. 
2.  Drugs:  
a.  Medical product shortages: FDA’s October 2019 report to Congress, Drug Shortages: Root 
Causes and Potential Solutions, based on the work of the inter-agency Drug Shortages Task Force 
33 
  
recommended efforts to “Create a Shared Understanding of the Impact of Drug Shortages and the 
Contracting Practices That May Contribute to Them.” To implement this recommendation, FDA is 
interested in working with stakeholders in the health system to develop quantitative estimates of the 
full impact of drug shortages on areas such as overall costs to the healthcare system and impact 
on, care provision, and patient outcomes. These estimates could be developed prospectively or 
retrospectively based on one or many past drug shortages and could be either specific to an 
organization or projected nationally. Potential areas include developing novel processes, data 
systems, or methodologies to track, quantify, and communicate the impact of drug shortages, 
analyzing the impact of past drug shortages on a healthcare provider, closed or integrated health 
system, payor, or other entity (such as cost and time to provide care, rescheduling of surgeries), 
assessing the impact of one or more drug shortages on patients, including substitution of alternative 
therapies, adverse events, and treatment outcomes, or creating a statistical or mathematical model 
to anticipate the impact of a drug shortage on the health system or patients. 
3.  Biologics:  
a.  Global vaccine production:  
i.  Facilitate global access to vaccines and other biological products by building capacity for the 
infrastructure for the development, delivery and post-market surveillance    
ii.  Assess and/or develop surveillance systems for safety and efficacy of vaccines and biologics 
in low- and middle-income countries (LMIC); 
iii.  Develop large databases and systems for conducting surveillance and epidemiological studies 
across a variety of participants from low- and middle-income countries and high-income 
countries. 
 
   
34 
  
Appendix (Additional background) 
1.  Antimicrobial drug development and antimicrobial drug resistance: Antimicrobial drug resistance is a 
major threat to public health. FDA’s roles in combatting antimicrobial drug resistance is to: (1) facilitate 
the development of new antibacterial and antifungal drugs to treat patients and (2) advance the science 
of clinical trial design. More information on specific funding priorities can be found at: 
www.fda.gov/oidresearch.  
2.  Immuno-Oncology: OCE is particularly interested in supporting research to improve understanding of 
atypical response patterns observed in patients treated with immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs), to 
develop endpoints that further development of cancer immunotherapy and cancer immunotherapy 
combination regimens, and to identify and characterize patients with resistance to cancer 
immunotherapy. Additional background information related to these around of interest maybe found 
here: https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oncology-center-excellence/oce-scientific-collaborative) 
3.  Neo-antigen-based therapies, Oncology: OCE is interested in supporting research related to clinical 
development, safety, manufacturing and quality control for cell therapy and neo-antigen-based 
therapies for cancer. Additional background information relating to these areas of interests may be 
found here https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oncology-center- excellence/oce-scientific- collaborative 
4.  Health equity and special population, Oncology: OCE is interested in understanding the factors that 
affect the safety and treatment response in demographic subgroups that have been historically 
underrepresented in oncology trials (e.g., racial/ethnic minorities, sexual and gender minorities, older 
adults). Additional background information relating to these areas of interests may be found at 
https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oncology-center-excellence/oce-scientific-collaborative) 
5.  Pediatric Oncology: Additional background information relating to these areas of interests may be found 
at https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oncology-center- excellence/oce-scientific-collaborative 
6.  Oncology safety: Additional background information relating to these areas of interests may be found at 
https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oncology-center-excellence/oce- scientific-collaborative 
7.  Oncology patient-focused drug development: Additional background information relating to these areas 
of interests may be found at https://www.fda.gov/about- fda/oncology-center-excellence/oce-scientific-
collaborative 
8.  Rare cancers: Additional background information relating to these areas of interests may be found at 
https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oncology-center-excellence/oce-scientific- collaborative 
9.  Precision Oncology: Additional background information relating to these areas of interests may be found 
at https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/oncology-center- excellence/oce-scientific-collaborative 
10. Drugs related Biomarker and Clinical Outcome Assessments: Additional background information 
relating to these areas of interests may be found at Biomarker Qualification Program | FDA; Clinical 
Outcome Assessment (COA) Qualification Program | FDA; https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-
development-tool-ddt-qualification-programs/innovative-science-and-technology-approaches-new-
drugs-istand-pilot-program 
11. Manufacturing Readiness Levels as defined by Department of Defense: Additional background 
information relating to these areas of interests may be found at: http://www.dodmrl.com/ and further 
explained at: https://www.nextflex.us/wp-content/uploads/NextFlex_PC3.0_MRL-TRL_Definitions.pdf) 
12. Generic Drugs: Additional background information GDUFA science and research priority initiatives for 
FY 2022. 
13. Systems modeling of the opioid crisis: FDA is seeking innovative research to help understand the 
dynamics of the opioid crisis and to model the potential impact of interventions to address it. FDA has 
developed a system dynamics model of opioid crisis (FDA Opioid Systems Modeling Effort | FDA), 
aligned with recommendation of the 2017 National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine 
(NASEM) report entitled Pain Management and the Opioid Epidemic. The purpose of the model is to 
support FDA’s and others in a) better understanding the complexity of the interconnected mechanisms 
35 
  
of the crisis, and b) assessing the potential impacts (intended and unintended) of possible policy 
actions to address the crisis. FDA is seeking complementary approaches to augment and support 
FDA’s modeling efforts by generating novel data, data synthesis or evidence-based quantitative 
estimates addressing various complex aspects of the crisis, which can be incorporated into FDA 
evolving systems model and analysis tool. 
14. Medical Countermeasures (MCMs): FDA seeks to facilitate development of safe and effective MCMs 
through both intramural research and collaboration with external partners (e.g., academia, U.S. 
government agencies, non- governmental organizations, and industry). The FDA’s MCM regulatory 
science mission is to develop the tools, standards, and approaches to assess the safety, quality, and 
performance of MCMs and to help translate cutting-edge science and technology into innovative, safe, 
and effective MCMs. Additional information, including current and completed projects, on the FDA 
MCMi initiative and projects is available at: https://www.fda.gov/emergency-preparedness-and-
response/medical-countermeasures-initiative-mcmi/mcm-regulatory-science 
15. FDA reviews proposals for the potential of Dual Use Research of Concern as defined and in 
accordance with USG policy: https://www.phe.gov/s3/dualuse/Pages/default.aspx 
16. Food and Drug Administration Overdose Prevention Framework. This framework consists of four 
priorities to address the overdose public health emergency. Additional background information is 
available at https://www.fda.gov/drugs/drug-safety-and-availability/food-and-drug-administration-
overdose-prevention-framework 
17. MDUFA V Draft Commitment letter:  Additional background information is available at 
https://www.fda.gov/media/157074/download 
18. CDRH 2022-2025 Strategic Priorities:  More information on CDRH’s advancing health equity strategic 
priority is available at https://www.fda.gov/media/155888/download  
19. AI/ML-Based SaMD Action Plan:  Available at https://www.fda.gov/media/145022/download 
20. Advancing Digital Health Medical Devices for Opioid Use Disorder:  Available at 
https://www.fda.gov/news-events/fda-voices/fdas-budget-advancing-goal-ending-opioid-crisis 
21. Digital Health Regulatory Science Research Spotlight: Digital Health Center of Excellence | FDA 
22. Industry 4.0 for pharmaceutical manufacturing: 
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0378517321003598 
23. Animal Rule: The “Animal Rule” is defined under 21 CFR 314.600/21 CFR 601.90. Accelerated Approval 
of Biological Products for Serious or Life-Threatening Illnesses is defined under 21 CFR Part 601, 
Subpart E. Accelerated Approval of New Drugs 
24. One Health Approaches: The development of One Health approaches enhances the collection of cross-
cutting data gathering focusing on the integration of human and animal FDA-regulated products 
impacted by environmental factors (e.g., physical, social, economic, or others) of national and global 
importance. One Health is a conceptual framework addressing the interconnectedness of human, 
animal, and environmental health. It provides a lens with which to analyze a diverse array of public 
health problems that includes but is not limited to food and drug adulteration and contamination, 
malfunctions and adverse events with medical devices, antimicrobial resistance across species, 
emerging pandemics, food insecurity, harm caused by tobacco use across species, climate change, 
health equity, food and medical supply chain issues, environmental justice, and chronic, non-
communicable diseases. One Health is mentioned in recently published global and Executive Branch 
strategic plans and proposed bills such as the 2022 National Biodefense Strategy, the One Health 
Security Act, and the Quadripartite One Health Joint Plan of Action. 
   
36 
 